= Ruby/AWS - A Ruby interface to the Amazon Associates Web Services API.

== Introduction

Ruby/AWS is a Ruby language library that allows programmatic access to
the popular Amazon Web sites via the AWS v4 API. It is the successor to the
now obsolete Ruby/Amazon.

In addition to the original
amazon.com[http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/redirect-home/calibanorg-20]
site, the local sites
amazon.co.uk[http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/redirect-home/caliban-21],
amazon.de[http://www.amazon.de/exec/obidos/redirect-home/calibanorg0a-21],
amazon.fr[http://www.amazon.fr/exec/obidos/redirect-home/caliban08-21],
amazon.ca[http://www.amazon.ca/exec/obidos/redirect-home/caliban-20] and
amazon.co.jp[http://www.amazon.co.jp/exec/obidos/redirect-home/calibanorg-20]
are also supported.

Although the library is still in development, the AWS v4 API is now more or
less fully supported, with only tiny gaps in the functionality of some
operations.

The following operations are supported:

 BrowseNodeLookup
 CustomerContentLookup
 CustomerContentSearch
 Help
 ItemLookup
 ItemSearch
 ListLookup
 ListSearch
 SellerListingLookup
 SellerListingSearch
 SellerLookup
 SimilarityLookup
 TagLookup
 TransactionLookup
 VehiclePartLookup
 VehiclePartSearch
 VehicleSearch

Remote shopping-carts are also supported. This adds the following operations:

 CartCreate
 CartAdd
 CartModify
 CartClear
 CartGet

Finally, multiple operations and batch requests are also supported.

Ruby/AWS supports request authentication, using your secret key to sign your
requests to AWS.

Beyond wrapping features readily available in the AWS API, Ruby/AWS also
offers advanced features not directly supported by the AWS API, such as the
ability to retrieve *all* results pages for a particular search, rather than
having to manually deal with multiple AWS responses of 10 results per page.

You can also retrieve product images and optionally overlay them with
percentage discount icons.

Another advanced feature is the ability to cache responses returned by AWS.
If the cache is used (as it is by default), the results of each unique
search will be cached and used for 24 hours. The cache can be manually
flushed of all or just the expired entries.

One other useful advanced feature is the ability to determine the
appropriate Amazon locale for a given client, based on its IP address or
host name. This allows you to perform AWS operations using the correct
geographical Amazon site for any given client. German and Austrian clients
can be made to interact with amazon.de, British and Irish clients with
amazon.co.uk, etc.


== Installation

Please see the +INSTALL+ file supplied with the software for details of how 
to install Ruby/AWS. You can choose between an installation script and a
RubyGems[http://www.rubygems.org/] installation.

Note, however, if opting for the gem installation, that Ruby/AWS's RubyForge
UNIX name is now ruby-aaws. The ruby-aws name was taken by {another
project}[http://rubyforge.org/projects/ruby-aws/] and this namespace clash
prevented remote installation of the Ruby/AWS gem.


== Prerequisites

Before you can use this library, you need to obtain an Amazon Web Services
{access key
ID}[https://aws-portal.amazon.com/gp/aws/developer/registration/index.html].

You should also apply for an {Associates
account}[http://docs.amazonwebservices.com/AWSECommerceService/2009-11-01/GSG/BecominganAssociate.html],
although this isn't strictly necessary. If you do not explicitly provide an
Associates tag in the operations you conduct via Ruby/AWS, the tag of the
Ruby/AWS author will be used by default.


== See Also

Ultimately, the way to get the most from Ruby/AWS is to read the AWS
documentation to get a feel for what is possible, and then experiment with
the library to see how the calls to AWS are mapped to the Ruby world. You
should also review this library's
RDoc[http://www.ruby-doc.org/core/classes/RDoc.html]
documentation[http://caliban.org/ruby/ruby-aws/] as well as the
plain-text +README+ file that came with the archive.

Additionally, there's a
{mailing-list}[http://caliban.org/mailman/listinfo/ruby-aws] available,
where you can discuss any Ruby/AWS-related subjects and issues.

Please see the AWS Developer Resources {home
page}[https://affiliate-program.amazon.com/gp/advertising/api/detail/main.html],
the Amazon Web Services API
documentation[http://developer.amazonwebservices.com/connect/kbcategory.jspa?categoryID=5],
and, in particular, the {release
notes}[http://developer.amazonwebservices.com/connect/kbcategory.jspa?categoryID=17]
for definitive information on the capabilities and inner workings of the AWS
API.


== Download

Version 0.8.1
=== {gzip'ed tar archive}[http://caliban.org/files/ruby/ruby-aws-0.8.1.tar.gz]
=== {Ruby Gem}[http://caliban.org/files/ruby/ruby-aaws-0.8.1.gem]
=== {Fedora 12 RPM}[http://caliban.org/files/redhat/RPMS/noarch/ruby-aws-0.8.1-1.fc12.noarch.rpm]
=== {Fedora 12 doc RPM}[http://caliban.org/files/redhat/RPMS/noarch/ruby-aws-doc-0.8.1-1.fc12.noarch.rpm]
=== {Fedora 12 source RPM}[http://caliban.org/files/redhat/SRPMS/ruby-aws-0.8.1-1.fc12.src.rpm]


---
Author::   Ian Macdonald <mailto:ian@caliban.org>
Version::  0.8.1
Copyright:: (C) 2008-2010 Ian Macdonald
Licence::  GPL[http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/gpl.html]
